End User License Agreement

CAUTION: YOU SHOULD CAREFULLY READ THE FOLLOWING TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS 
END USER LICENSE AGREEMENT BEFORE INSTALLING OR USING THE PRODUCT AND 
DOCUMENTATION TO WHICH THIS AGREEMENT RELATES. BY ACCEPTING THIS AGREEMENT YOU 
ARE CONSENTING TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS CONTAINED HEREIN AND 
ACKNOWLEDGING YOUR AUTHORITY TO DO SO ON BEHALF OF YOUR COMPANY (IF 
APPLICABLE). IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS AND CONDITIONS, DO NOT 
PROCEED WITH THE INSTALLATION OF THE PRODUCT(S) AND PROMPTLY RETURN THE 
PRODUCT(S), DOCUMENTATION, AND ALL COPIES THEREOF TO THE SUPPLIER FROM WHICH IT 
WAS ACQUIRED FOR A FULL REFUND OF THE LICENSE FEES, IF ANY, PAID FOR THE 
PRODUCT(S). THE TERM "PROMPTLY" AS USED HEREIN SHALL MEAN NO LATER THAN SIXTY 
(60) DAYS FOLLOWING THE DELIVERY OF THE PRODUCT TO YOU.

1.  License Grant.   

1.1	For purposes of this Agreement, "Progress" refers to Progress Software 
Corporation and "you" or "Licensee" refers to the individual installing or 
using the Product(s), if you are acting as an individual on your own behalf; 
otherwise, "you" or "Licensee" means the business or other entity for which you 
are obtaining the Product(s) and that will exercise the rights granted under 
this Agreement.  Subject to the terms and conditions contained in this End User 
License Agreement, including all exhibits, Orders (as defined below) and 
License Addenda (as defined below)(collectively, this "Agreement"), Progress 
grants to you a non-exclusive, non-transferable, limited, personal license 
(without the right to sublicense) to use the software product(s) (each 
individually, a "Product"), for which valid control codes have been issued by 
Progress, identified in (i) the written or electronic order document, form or 
invoice provided or accepted by Progress or Progress's authorized 
representative (each an "Order") or (ii) the installation procedure. Any 
update, patch, solution pack, service pack, value-add pack, hotfix, workaround, 
prepackaged module and/or new release, version or enhancement issued to 
Licensee by Progress relating to the Product (each an "Update") replaces part 
or all of a Product or Update previously licensed to Licensee and shall 
terminate such previously licensed Product or Update to the extent replaced by 
the Update.  Each Update shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the 
license agreement accompanying the Update.  In addition and subject to the 
terms and conditions contained herein, Progress grants Licensee a 
non-exclusive, non-transferable, limited, personal license (without the right 
to sublicense) to use the written technical materials and end user instructions 
including all updates and versions thereof released by Progress and associated 
with the Product, if any, distributed with the Product (the "Documentation"). 

1.2	By virtue of this Agreement, Licensee acquires only the non-exclusive 
right to use the Product and does not acquire any rights of ownership to (i) 
the Product, (ii) any Documentation provided therewith or (iii) the media, if 
any, upon which the Product and Documentation are embodied. Progress and/or its 
licensors shall at all times retain all right, title, and interest in the 
Product, the Documentation, and any media provided therewith.  Except for the 
license rights expressly granted herein, this Agreement grants no additional 
express or implied license, right or interest in the Product or in any 
copyright, patent, trade secret, trademark, invention or other intellectual 
property rights of Progress, its affiliates or their licensors.  Progress 
reserves all rights not expressly granted to Licensee in this Agreement. 

1.3	The term of the license is set forth in Exhibit A or the applicable 
Order, unless otherwise terminated in accordance with the terms of this 
Agreement.   

1.4	Licensee agrees to pay the applicable fees as set forth in the Order. 
Licensee further agrees to pay any applicable transportation charges, 
value-added taxes or other applicable taxes, tariffs or withholding taxes which 
the relevant authorities require to pay. All fees are exclusive of any such 
taxes or tariffs unless expressly stated in the Order.

1.5	Shipping terms for Product(s) shipped on physical media is FOB shipping 
point.  For Product(s) shipped via electronic delivery, delivery is deemed 
complete, FOB shipping point, when the Product(s) is/are made available at the 
electronic software download ("ESD") site specified by Progress and Licensee is 
e-mailed or otherwise issued a password to access and download the Product(s).

2.  License Restrictions.  

2.1	Licensee's use of the Product and Documentation is limited to internal 
use within Licensee's organization. The Product and Documentation may not be 
used by affiliated parties of Licensee unless specifically authorized in 
Exhibit A.  Use shall be in accordance with the provisions of and limitations 
set forth in this Agreement, including Exhibit A hereto, and the additional 
terms, if any, set forth in any Order or additional agreement executed by 
Progress and Licensee in connection with this Agreement which specifically 
states the terms thereof shall be in addition to or in lieu of any of the terms 
set forth herein (each a "License Addendum" and collectively, the "License 
Addenda"). 

2.2	The license model for the Product is set forth in the Order and 
described in Exhibit A. Third party rights and any additional licensing 
restrictions are set forth or referenced in Exhibit A.

2.3	If Licensee receives the Product in conjunction with a software 
application provided by a third party, the Product may only be used with or as 
part of such software application.  

2.4	Licensee shall not copy (except as provided in Section 5.2 hereof), 
disassemble, reverse engineer, decompile, modify or create derivative works of 
the Product and the Documentation to the extent that such restriction is not 
prohibited by applicable mandatory law.  

2.5	Licensee may not sublicense, sell, rent, encumber, outsource, lease or 
grant any other rights in the Product and/or the Documentation to others or 
otherwise allow the Product to be accessed, used or possessed by another 
party. For these purposes, the term "use" shall include, without limitation, 
direct or indirect use via thin-client or web-based remote access software 
which but for the use thereof would have required a copy of the Product to be 
installed or used locally by that user.
 
2.6	Licensee shall have no right to use the Product to provide time 
sharing, outsourced services, or facility management services or to act as or 
operate a service bureau or provide information, data processing, subscription 
or hosting services for another party.  

2.7	The Product, including technical data, are subject to U.S. export 
control laws, including, without limitation, the U.S. Export Administration Act 
and its associated regulations, and may be subject to export or import 
regulations in other countries. Licensee shall not directly or indirectly 
export or re-export the Product, or any direct product thereof, without first 
obtaining Progress's written approval. Licensee agrees to comply strictly with 
all regulations and acknowledges that it has the responsibility to obtain 
licenses to export, re-export or import the Product. The Product may not be 
downloaded, or otherwise exported or re-exported (i) into, or to a national or 
resident of any country and/or party to which the U.S. has embargoed goods; or 
(ii) to anyone on the U.S. Treasury Department's list of Specially Designated 
Nationals, or the U.S. Commerce Department's Table of Denial Orders as amended 
from time to time, or any other list distributed by the United States 
government setting forth individuals or entities to which distribution of the 
Product would be prohibited by United States law.  

2.8	Licensee shall be solely responsible for identifying and complying with 
all laws of any jurisdiction outside of the United States regarding the use of 
the Product and any technical data supplied by Progress.  Licensee agrees to 
obtain all licenses, permits or approvals required by any government at 
Licensee's sole cost and expense.  Licensee's obligations under this Section 
2.8 shall survive termination for any reason whatsoever. 

2.9	If the Product is being acquired by or on behalf of the U.S. Government 
or by a U.S. Government prime contractor or subcontractor (at any tier), then 
the U.S. Government's rights in the Product will be only as set forth herein.  
The Product and related Documentation is a "commercial item" as that term is 
defined at 48 C.F.R. 2.101, consisting of "commercial computer software" and 
"commercial computer software Documentation" as such terms are used in 48 
C.F.R. 12.212. Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 
through 227.7202-4, all U.S. Government end users acquire the Product and such 
Documentation with only those rights set forth herein. Contract/Manufacturer is 
Progress Software Corporation, 14 Oak Park, Bedford, MA 01730. 
 
2.10	This Agreement is personal to Licensee and Licensee may not transfer, 
assign or otherwise convey, novate or encumber this Agreement or the Product, 
in whole or in part, by operation of law, merger or otherwise, to any other 
party, including any parent, subsidiary or affiliated entity.  A Change of 
Control of Licensee shall constitute an assignment hereunder.   A "Change of 
Control" shall include, but not be limited to, any merger, consolidation, 
amalgamation, reorganization or sale, transfer or exchange of the capital stock 
or equity interests of Licensee in a transaction or series of transactions 
which results in the holders of Licensee's capital stock or equity interests 
holding less than 50% of the outstanding capital stock or equity interests 
immediately following such transaction(s). 

3.   Limited Warranty. 

3.1	Progress warrants that, for a period of ninety (90) days from either 
the date of the initial shipment or availability for download from a Progress 
website of the Product whichever occurs first (the "Warranty Period"), (i) the 
Product will conform in all material respects to the Documentation and (ii) the 
media, if any, on which the Product is recorded will be free from defects in 
materials and that the Product is properly recorded on the media. As the sole 
and exclusive remedy for physically defective media (such as the diskettes, 
cartridges, CD-ROMs, DVDs or magnetic tapes), Progress will replace it free of 
charge if claimed during the Warranty Period.  As the sole and exclusive remedy 
for any failure of the Product to materially conform to the Documentation, 
Progress shall repair or replace the Product if such failure is reported during 
the Warranty Period or, if Progress, at its discretion, reasonably determines 
that such remedy is not economically or technically feasible, this Agreement 
and the licenses granted hereunder will terminate and Progress or its supplier 
(as applicable) shall provide a full refund of the license fee paid with 
respect to the particular Product. The above warranties do not cover Updates, 
generic non-configured solution packs, any Product provided on an evaluation 
basis, or defects to the Product due to accident, abuse, service, alteration, 
modification or improper installation or configuration by Licensee, its 
personnel or any third party.  

3.2	Progress does not warrant that the functions of the Product will meet 
Licensee's requirements or that operation of the Product will be uninterrupted 
or error free. Licensee assumes responsibility for selecting the Product to 
achieve its intended results and for the use and results obtained from the 
Product. 

3.3	THE LIMITED WARRANTY SPECIFIED IN SECTION 3.1 SETS FORTH ALL WARRANTIES 
AND REPRESENTATIONS PROVIDED TO LICENSEE WITH RESPECT TO THE PRODUCT AND ANY 
SERVICES AND UPDATES PROVIDED HEREUNDER, AND SUCH LIMITED WARRANTY IS PROVIDED 
SOLELY BY PROGRESS AND NOT ITS LICENSORS. EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS 
AGREEMENT, PROGRESS, ITS LICENSORS AND THEIR RESPECTIVE SUPPLIERS MAKE NO 
WARRANTIES OR REPRESENTATIONS, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, RELATING TO THE PRODUCT, OR 
ANY SERVICES OR UPDATES PROVIDED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT.  ANY UPDATES OR SERVICES 
DELIVERED HEREUNDER ARE DELIVERED "AS IS" WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, 
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, STATUTORY OR OTHERWISE. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY 
APPLICABLE LAW ALL OTHER IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND REPRESENTATIONS INCLUDING, BUT 
NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT WITH RESPECT TO THE PRODUCT, OR 
ANY SERVICES AND UPDATES PROVIDED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT ARE DISCLAIMED. Further, 
the Product is not fault tolerant and is not designed, manufactured or intended 
for use in hazardous environments requiring fail-safe performance (including, 
without limitation, the design, construction, operation or maintenance of any 
nuclear facility; direct life support machines; weapon systems; or control of 
aircraft, air traffic, aircraft navigation or aircraft communications), in 
which the failure of the Product could lead directly or indirectly to death, 
personal injury or severe physical or environmental damage. Without limiting 
the scope of the disclaimers set forth herein, Progress for itself and on 
behalf of its licensors and their respective suppliers, disclaims any express 
or implied warranty of fitness for any such high risk uses. 

4.  Indemnity

4.1	Progress will defend, indemnify and hold Licensee harmless against any 
and all costs and reasonable expenses finally awarded by a court or agreed to 
in settlement which directly result from any third party claim based on an 
allegation that a Product infringes either a valid (a) United States patent or 
(b) copyright of a country that is a party to the Agreement for Trade Related 
Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights ("TRIPS") but only if Progress is 
notified promptly in writing of such claim and given sole control of the 
defense of any such claim and all negotiations for its settlement or 
compromise. Licensee agrees to reasonably cooperate with Progress in the 
defense, settlement or compromise of any such claim. In the event that a final 
injunction is obtained against Licensee's use of the Product,  if Progress 
reasonably believes that Licensee's use of the Products could be so enjoined, 
or if in Progress's opinion the Product is likely to become the subject of a 
successful claim of such infringement, Progress shall, at its option and 
expense, (i) procure  for Licensee the right to continue using the Product as 
provided in this Agreement, (ii) modify or require replacement of the Product 
that Licensee is then currently using so that the Product becomes 
non-infringing (so long as the functionality of the Products is substantially 
similar) or, in the event neither of the previous two options are commercially 
reasonable for Progress, (iii) terminate this Agreement and the rights granted 
hereunder and refund to Licensee the amount paid to Progress for the Product 
less an amount for depreciation determined on a straight-line fiveyear 
depreciation basis with a commencement date as of the respective shipment date 
of the applicable copies of the Product.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
Progress shall have no liability for a claim to the extent based on (A) the use 
by Licensee of the Product more than thirty (30) days after Progress has 
notified Licensee of (i), (ii) or (iii), above or (B) the version of the 
Product used by Licensee is not the current release version of the Product.  

4.2	Notwithstanding the foregoing, Progress shall have no liability to 
Licensee under this Section 4 to the extent that any infringement or claim 
thereof is based upon (i) the combination, operation or use of a Product in 
combination with equipment or software not supplied by Progress hereunder where 
the Product would itself not be infringing, (ii) Licensee's non-compliance with 
designs, specifications or instructions provided by Progress to Licensee, (iii) 
use of a Product in an application or environment for which it was not designed 
or not contemplated under this Agreement,  (iv) modifications of a Product by 
anyone other than Progress where the unmodified version of the Product would 
not be infringing, or (v) use by users or affiliated parties of Licensee not 
permitted by this Agreement. 

4.3	THE FOREGOING INDEMNIFICATION PROVISIONS STATE THE ENTIRE LIABILITY OF 
PROGRESS AND THE SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY OF LICENSEE WITH RESPECT TO ANY 
INFRINGEMENT OR ALLEGED INFRINGEMENT BY PROGRESS OF ANY INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
RIGHTS OR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS IN RESPECT OF THE PRODUCT OR ITS USE.

4.4	If any affiliated  party of Licensee is specifically authorized in 
writing and as a term of this Agreement to use the Product pursuant to Section 
2.1 hereof and Exhibit A, Licensee shall defend, indemnify and hold Progress 
harmless for all acts and omissions of such affiliated party.  

5.	Confidentiality; Notices

5.1	Licensee acknowledges that the Products, including all source and/or 
object code and all parts and aspects thereof, and any Updates, modifications, 
translations, localizations, or other derivative works thereof, in whatever 
form, whether or not marked as confidential, the Documentation and any other 
documentation or materials provided with or related to the Product 
(collectively, the "Confidential Information"), are the valuable proprietary 
and trade secret information of Progress and/or its licensors and suppliers.  
Licensee shall (i) limit use and disclosure of the Confidential Information to 
its employees and its consultants who are authorized pursuant to this Agreement 
to use the Products and who agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement or 
are otherwise bound to a confidentiality agreement containing substantially 
similar terms; (ii) not provide or disclose any of the Confidential Information 
to another party; and (iii) treat the Confidential Information with the same 
degree of care to avoid disclosure to any third party as is used with respect 
to Licensee's information of like importance which is to be kept secret, but 
with no less than reasonable care.  The foregoing obligations shall be in 
addition to any obligations set forth in any separate confidentiality agreement 
between Progress and Licensee.   

5.2	Licensee agrees, under penalty of license termination but not exclusive 
of any other remedies, not to cause or permit the copying of the Product for 
any purpose other than expressly set forth herein.  Licensee may copy the 
Product only for archival and off-line backup purposes, but not for disaster 
recovery purposes unless Licensee has purchased the appropriate disaster 
recovery or replication license.  Licensee may copy the Documentation solely 
for the purpose of facilitating Licensee's use of the Product in accordance 
with, and subject to, the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Licensee 
agrees not to remove any product identification, copyright notices, or other 
notices or proprietary restrictions from the Product. 

5.3	Benchmark results for the Product may not be disclosed or published 
without the written consent of Progress. 

5.4	Licensee acknowledges that in the event of a breach or threat of breach 
of this Section 5, money damages will not be adequate.  Therefore, in addition 
to any other legal or equitable remedies, Progress shall be entitled to seek 
injunctive or similar equitable relief against such breach or threat of breach.

5.5	All notices and requests in connection with this Agreement to be sent 
to Progress shall be given in writing and shall be sent by hand delivery, 
overnight courier or certified mail with proof of delivery to the following 
address:  14 Oak Park Drive, Bedford, MA 01730, Attention: General Counsel.  
All notices and requests in connection with this Agreement to be sent to 
Licensee shall be given in writing and shall be sent by hand delivery, 
overnight courier or certified mail with proof of delivery to the address first 
set forth in the Order.  Either party may change its address for receipt of 
notices upon written notice to the other party, and notices shall be deemed 
given on the day of receipt or the date evidenced on the proof of delivery, 
whichever is earlier.

6.	Limitation of Liability.

6.1	 TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, THE LIABILITY OF 
PROGRESS, IF ANY, FOR DAMAGES RELATING TO ANY PRODUCT, UPDATE AND/OR SERVICES 
SHALL BE LIMITED TO THE ACTUAL AMOUNTS PAID BY LICENSEE FOR SUCH PRODUCT, 
UPDATE AND/OR SERVICES. PROGRESS'S LICENSORS AND THEIR SUPPLIERS SHALL HAVE NO 
LIABILITY TO LICENSEE FOR ANY DAMAGES SUFFERED BY LICENSEE OR ANY THIRD PARTY 
AS A RESULT OF USING THE PRODUCT, ANY UPDATE, OR ANY PORTION THEREOF, OR AS A 
RESULT OF ANY SERVICES RELATING THERETO. NOTWITHSTANDING THE FOREGOING, IN NO 
EVENT SHALL PROGRESS, ITS LICENSORS, OR ANY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE SUPPLIERS BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY LOST REVENUE, PROFIT OR DATA, OR FOR INDIRECT, PUNITIVE, 
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER, INCLUDING, 
WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, HOWEVER CAUSED AND 
REGARDLESS OF THE THEORY OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO 
USE THE PRODUCT, ANY UPDATE, OR ANY PORTION THEREOF, OR ANY SERVICES, EVEN IF 
PROGRESS, ITS LICENSORS AND/OR ANY OF THEIR RESPECTIVE SUPPLIERS HAVE BEEN 
INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. EACH EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION IS 
INTENDED TO BE A SEPARATE AND THEREFORE SEVERABLE EXCLUSION.

7.  Audit Rights.  Progress may install, enable and utilize automated license 
tracking, management and/or enforcement solutions with the Products, which 
Licensee may not disrupt or alter.  Licensee shall maintain books and records 
in connection with this Agreement and the use of the Products and any Updates 
and/or services provided hereunder.  Such books and records shall include at a 
minimum the number of licenses purchased and being used by Licensee.  At its 
expense and with reasonable written notice to Licensee, Progress or a third 
party appointed by Progress may audit the books, records, and if necessary, the 
systems on which the Product or any Update is installed for the sole purpose of 
ensuring compliance with the terms of this Agreement.  Progress shall have the 
right to conduct follow-up audits as necessary.  All audits shall be conducted 
during regular business hours at Licensee's offices and shall not interfere 
unreasonably with Licensee's activities.  Progress shall treat all such records 
and books as confidential information. If any audit reveals that Licensee has 
underpaid license or maintenance and support fees, Licensee shall be invoiced 
for all such underpaid fees based on Progress list price in effect at the time 
the audit is completed.  If the underpaid fees are in excess of five percent 
(5%) of the fees previously paid by Licensee, then Licensee shall also pay 
Progress's reasonable costs of conducting the audit and enforcement of this 
Agreement. 

8.   Termination.

8.1	Progress may terminate this Agreement by written notice at any time if 
Licensee defaults in the performance of any provision of this Agreement and 
fails to cure such default to the satisfaction of Progress within thirty (30) 
days after such notice. This remedy shall not be exclusive and shall be in 
addition to any other remedies which Progress may have under this Agreement or 
otherwise.

8.2	Any purported transfer or assignment of this Agreement or the licenses 
granted hereunder by Licensee or other action by Licensee in contravention of 
Section 2.10 above or any purported transfer or assignment of this Agreement or 
the licenses granted hereunder as a result of Licensee's bankruptcy, 
insolvency, or liquidation or as a result of an assignment of Licensee's assets 
for the benefit of creditors shall be void and this Agreement and the licenses 
granted hereunder shall thereupon automatically terminate without further 
notice or action by Progress.

8.3	Within ten (10) days of the date of expiration or termination of this 
Agreement and/or any of the licenses granted hereunder, Licensee shall return 
all copies of the Products, including all Updates, and related Documentation to 
Progress or, if requested by Progress, destroy such Products, Updates and 
Documentation and certify in writing to such return or destruction. 

9.   Miscellaneous.

9.1	If Progress offers maintenance and support for the Product, and if 
Licensee orders and pays for such maintenance and support, such maintenance and 
support shall be provided in accordance with Progress' then current and 
applicable maintenance and support policies. 

9.2	THIS AGREEMENT, INCLUDING ANY EXHIBITS AND ANY LICENSE ADDENDUM(S), 
CONSTITUTES THE COMPLETE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE 
PRODUCT AND SUPERCEDES ANY OTHER AGREEMENT, PROPOSAL, COMMUNICATION OR 
ADVERTISING, ORAL OR WRITTEN, SIGNED OR UNSIGNED, WITH RESPECT TO THE PRODUCT.  
To the extent there are any terms and conditions contained in Licensee's 
purchase order or other documentation supplied by Licensee such terms and 
conditions shall be deemed to be stricken and the terms and conditions of this 
Agreement shall govern. In the event any provision of this Agreement is held to 
be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement will 
remain in full force and effect.

9.3	For administrative convenience, Progress invoices may be issued by a 
local affiliate of Progress.  

9.4	This Agreement has been drawn up in English at the express wish of the 
parties.  Le present contrat a ete redige en anglais a la demande expresse des 
parties.  

9.5	Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, this Agreement is 
governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, without regard to 
its choice of law principles, and without regard to the provisions of any state 
Uniform Computer Information Transactions Act or similar federal, state, local 
or foreign laws, regulations or conventions. 

9.6	This Agreement may not be modified or amended except in a writing 
executed by both Progress and Licensee. 

9.7	Failure or delay on the part of Progress to exercise any right, power, 
privilege or remedy hereunder shall not constitute a waiver thereof.  A waiver 
of default shall not operate as a waiver of any other default or of the same 
type of default on future occasions. 

9.8	The parties expressly disclaim the application of the United Nations 
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods.  

9.9	If the Product is acquired outside the United States local law may 
apply.




EXHIBIT A


TERM OF LICENSE:

Perpetual, unless otherwise specified in the applicable Order or the Product is 
provided to Licensee on an evaluation basis in which case the Product will be 
provided for a limited term subject to an Evaluation License as described below.


APPLICABLE FEES:

Any applicable license fees or maintenance and support fees will be set forth 
in the Order.


AFFILIATE USE, IF ANY:

See Order.  


ADDITIONAL TERMS, IF ANY:

Runtime License Checker:
The Products may include code to verify that Licensee has not exceeded the 
license keys issued by Progress (the "Runtime License Checker") and in the 
event that the Runtime License Checker determines that Licensee has exceeded 
its license the Products may cease to operate.

Bulk Loading Features:  
If the Product is licensed with Bulk Loading Features (hereinafter defined) 
Licensee is not limited to a certain number of rows.  If the Product is not 
licensed with Bulk Loading Features and Licensee exceeds 10,000 rows the 
Product shall cease to operate.  For the purposes hereof, "Bulk Loading 
Features" shall mean anything in the Documentation that refers to "Bulk Load", 
"Progress DataDirect Bulk Load" or "Bulk Loading Features." 

(a)	For Progress DataDirect Connect for ADO.NET (release 3.2 or higher 
only): There are two (2) methods of using Bulk Loading Features as follows: (1) 
setting the "Bulk Load Protocol" connection option to 'Automatic' or 'Bulk'  in 
the connection string; or (2) calling the methods WriteToToServer in the 
DbBulkCopy, DB2BulkCopy, OracleBulkCopy, SybaseBulkCopy or SQLServerBulkCopy 
classes.

(b)	For Progress DataDirect Connect for ODBC and Progress DataDirect 
Connect64 for ODBC (release 6.0 or higher only):  There are four (4) methods of 
using Bulk Loading Features as follows: (1) setting the "EnableBulkLoad" 
connection option to 1 in the connection string or datasource, (2) calling the 
functions LoadTableFromFile, LoadTableFromFileW, ExportTableToFile, 
ExportTableToFileW, ValidateTableFromFile, or ValidateTableFromFileW, (3) using 
any of the Bulk Load options and functionality that are available on the "Bulk 
Load" Tab of the drivers' setup dialogs, or (4) setting the SQL_BULK_EXPORT 
statement attribute by calling SQLSetStatementAttr.

(c)	Bulk Loading Features for Progress DataDirect Connect for JDBC (release 
4.0 service pack 2 or higher only) and for Progress DataDirect Connect XE for 
JDBC 4.2, or higher driver: There are two (2) methods of using Bulk Loading 
Features as follows:  (1) set the EnableBulkLoad option to true in the 
connection string or datasource, or (2) create any instance of a DDBulkLoad 
object (directly or by calling the getDDBulkLoad() method) or use any methods 
or properties on that object.

Use Restrictions:  

1.	Application Specific.  If the Order lists a specific application 
authorized for use with the Product(s), or if Licensee obtained the Product(s) 
in conjunction with a software application provided by a third party, the 
Product(s) is/are licensed for use only with such application.  Use with any 
other application/product is strictly prohibited.   

2.	Term License.  If the Order specifies that Licensee's license to the 
Product(s) is/are for a term ("Term"), then the term of this Agreement and 
Licensee's license to the Product(s) hereunder shall expire on the expiration 
date stated in the Order unless sooner terminated in accordance with Section 8 
of the Agreement.  Upon completion of the Term, Licensee shall return all 
Product(s) licensed under the Order and associated documentation and related 
information (including all copies) to Progress, or certify its destruction in a 
writing delivered to Progress.  All license rights in and to the Product(s) 
licensed under the terms of the Agreement shall terminate at the end of the 
Term. 

3.	Operating Systems or Platforms.  If the Order specifies that Licensee's 
license to the Product(s) is/are limited to a specific Operating System ("OS") 
or Platform, then the Product(s) is/are licensed with the additional 
restriction that it be used solely in conjunction with the specified OS or 
Platform.  Use with any other OS or Platform is strictly prohibited. Without 
limiting the foregoing, if the Product is a Progress OpenAccess Development 
Product (as defined below), then the additional restriction specified in the 
preceding sentence applies to any part of the Progress OpenAccess Development 
Product, including, without limitation, the Progress OpenAccess Runtime 
Components (as defined below) contained therein.

4.	Competitive Use. Licensee may not use the Product(s) to develop, test, 
support or market products that are competitive with and/or provide similar 
functionality to the Product(s).

5.	Evaluation License Only. Licensee acknowledges and agrees that the 
evaluation period may not be extended by uninstalling and re-installing the 
Product(s) or by any other means other than Progress' written consent.

Other:

1. Progress DataDirect Connect for ODBC, Progress DataDirect Connect64 for 
ODBC, Progress DataDirect Connect XE for ODBC, Progress DataDirect Connect64 XE 
for ODBC, Progress DataDirect SequeLink for ODBC, Progress DataDirect 
OpenAccess for ODBC for Wonderware Data Source, Progress DataDirect OpenAccess 
for ODBC for Intellution FIX and Dynamics Data Sources, Progress OpenAccess 
Development Product for ODBC and Progress OpenAccess Runtime Product for ODBC 
.  If the Product licensed to Licensee is Progress DataDirect Connect for ODBC, 
Progress DataDirect Connect64 for ODBC, Progress DataDirect Connect XE for 
ODBC, Progress DataDirect Connect64 XE for ODBC, Progress DataDirect SequeLink 
for ODBC, Progress DataDirect OpenAccess for ODBC for Wonderware Data Source, 
Progress DataDirect OpenAccess for ODBC for Intellution FIX and Dynamics Data 
Sources, Progress OpenAccess Development Product for ODBC, or Progress 
OpenAccess Runtime Product for ODBC (each the "Licensed Product"), the 
following additional requirements shall apply: Progress has licensed, and has 
rights to sub-license certain third party software that is part of the ODBC SDK 
components and which is usable for certain non-Windows platforms - Mac OS, 
OS/2, HP-UX, AIX, Linux, Solaris, and other non-Windows operating systems.  
This section sets forth the conditions that govern Licensee's permitted use of 
the various non-windows SDK components:  Licensee is not licensed to use the 
ODBC Core Components (hereinafter defined) other than with the Licensed 
Product, or in the case where the Licensed Product is Progress OpenAccess 
Development Product for ODBC or Progress OpenAccess Runtime Product for ODBC, 
other than with the Custom Driver (as defined below) created with the use of 
the Progress OpenAccess Development Product ("Permitted Driver").  Use of the 
ODBC Core Components with any ODBC drivers other than the Licensed Product, or 
in the case where the Licensed Product is Progress OpenAccess Development 
Product for ODBC or Progress OpenAccess Runtime Product for ODBC, other than 
the Permitted Driver, is expressly prohibited.  Licensee may not embed in any 
products, or otherwise sub-license the ODBC Core Components, without a separate 
license agreement.  For the purposes hereof, the term "ODBC Core Components" 
shall mean the ODBC Driver Manager and support files for non-Windows operating 
systems.  A separate license must be obtained from Progress if Licensee wants 
to embed and sub-license the ODBC Header Files (hereinafter defined) with any 
software product.  For the purposes hereof, the term "ODBC Header Files" shall 
mean the text files for compilation and development of software. 

2. Stylus Studio Products. If the Product licensed to Licensee is a Stylus 
Studio product the following requirements shall apply:

(i)	If the Product is Stylus Studio, Stylus Studio XML Enterprise Suite, or 
Stylus Studio XML Professional Suite then the Product is licensed on a named 
user basis meaning specific individuals are authorized to access the Product 
and the total number of named users may not exceed the total number licensed by 
Licensee.  Stylus Studio, Stylus Studio XML Enterprise Suite and Stylus Studio 
XML Professional Suite are subject to the additional restriction that it may be 
used by Licensee solely for development and testing of software applications, 
and not in conjunction with the deployment of such software applications. 

(ii)	If the Product is Stylus Studio XML Home Edition, then the Product is 
licensed on a single named user basis for personal use only.  The Stylus Studio 
XML Home Edition is subject to the additional restriction that it not be used 
in conjunction with any commercial or for-profit transactions.  NOTWITHSTANDING 
ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY IN SECTION 3 OF THE AGREEMENT, AND EXCEPT AS 
PROHIBITED BY APPLICABLE LAW, STYLUS STUDIO XML HOME EDITION IS PROVIDED "AS 
IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND.  PROGRESS MAKES NO WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO 
THE STYLUS STUDIO XML HOME EDITION, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR ARISING BY CUSTOM OR 
TRADE USAGE, AND SPECIFICALLY MAKES NO WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR OF 
FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NONINFRINGEMENT.  Licensee shall have the 
sole responsibility for adequate protection and back-up of all data use in 
connection with the product.  

(iii)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Evaluation License Model 
set forth below, if the Product is an evaluation version of Stylus Studio, then 
the Product is licensed on a single named user basis and is subject to the 
additional restriction that it be used by Licensee solely for evaluation of 
software applications, and not in conjunction with the development or 
deployment of such software applications. Licensee must purchase a license for 
Stylus Studio for the development and testing of software applications.  
Evaluation includes the use of Products in performance benchmarking.  Progress 
updates the Product regularly and benchmarking data for the Product is subject 
to change.  Benchmark tests on prior versions of the Product may yield results 
that are not reflective of the performance of the current version of the 
Product.  The most current version of the Product is available at 
www.stylusstudio.com.  LICENSEE UNDERSTANDS AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE 
EVALUATION VERSION OF STYLUS STUDIO CONTAINS A DISABLING DEVICE THAT WILL 
AUTOMATICALLY DISABLE THE PRODUCT FIFTEEN (15) DAYS FROM INSTALLATION.  
NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY IN SECTION 3 OF THE AGREEMENT, 
EVALUATION VERSION OF STYLUS STUDIO IS PROVIDED "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY 
KIND.  PROGRESS MAKES NO WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO THE EVALUATION VERSION OF 
STYLUS STUDIO, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR ARISING BY CUSTOM OR TRADE USAGE, AND 
SPECIFICALLY MAKES NO WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR OF FITNESS FOR ANY 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NONINFRINGEMENT. 

(iv)	If Licensee ordered or obtained the Product license from a third party 
authorized by Progress to resell the Product in conjunction with such third 
party's software product(s) ("Third Party Reseller"), then, in addition to the 
terms and conditions of this Agreement, Licensee's use of the Product may be 
subject to additional scope of license terms and conditions (if any) specified 
by the Third Party Reseller, including, without limitation, a restriction that 
Licensee limit its use of the Product to use solely in conjunction with the 
Third Party Reseller's software product(s) licensed by the Third Party Reseller 
to Licensee.  To the extent that any additional scope of license terms and 
conditions communicated by the Third Party Reseller to Licensee are in direct 
conflict with the scope of license specified herein, then the scope of license 
terms and conditions specified by the Third Party Reseller shall apply.  
Otherwise the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall govern.  In no event 
does Progress make any representations or warranties, express, implied or 
arising by custom or trade usage, regarding the Third Party Reseller's software 
products and assumes no liability or responsibility with regard to said 
software products.

(v)	The Product may contain programs that perform automated collection of 
system data and transmit said data to equipment owned or under the control of 
Progress in order to (i) register the Licensee's activation of the Product, 
(ii) perform automated updating services for the Product, and/or (iii) validate 
whether Licensee is entitled to use the Product.  System data collected through 
such programs may be used by Progress for the purpose of providing Licensee 
with remote system services and/or for the purpose of enforcing the terms and 
conditions of this Agreement.

(vi)	Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 9.1 of the 
Agreement, maintenance and support for Stylus Studio products is only available 
online via the Stylus Studio Developer Network (SSDN).

3. Progress OpenAccess Development Product.	If the Product licensed to 
Licensee is a Progress OpenAccess Development Product the following additional 
requirements shall apply: (a) The Progress OpenAccess Development Product is 
licensed on an Authorized User basis; and (b) The Progress OpenAccess 
Development Product may only be used on a single development computing machine 
for the purpose of developing a User Interface Provider (as defined below). 
Except as expressly permitted pursuant to this Exhibit A, neither the Progress 
OpenAccess Development Product nor any part thereof may be (i) embedded in 
another software program or application or (ii) used in connection with the 
operation of a software program or application in a production environment. Any 
use by Licensee of the Progress OpenAccess Runtime Components included in the 
Progress OpenAccess Development Product must be limited to use solely for the 
purpose of developing and testing the operation of the Custom Driver in a 
development environment, and under no circumstances may such Progress 
OpenAccess Runtime Components be used or deployed for productive use. Licensee 
must purchase a separate deployment license for the Progress OpenAccess Runtime 
Product (as defined below) in order to use and deploy said Progress OpenAccess 
Runtime Components in a production environment. 

4. Progress OpenAccess Runtime Product.	If the Product licensed to Licensee is 
a Progress OpenAccess Runtime Product the following additional requirements 
shall apply:

(i)	Licensee shall be permitted to make and deploy copies of the Progress 
OpenAccess Runtime Product strictly on an internal deployment basis for use in 
conjunction with the User Interface Provider to create a Custom Driver where 
such Custom Driver is used solely by Licensee in an internal testing and/or 
production environment. If the Progress OpenAccess Runtime Product licensed to 
Licensee is restricted to use for a specific application in accordance with 
Section 1 of "Use Restrictions" above, then Licensee's use of the Custom Driver 
and Progress OpenAccess Runtime Product shall be limited to use in connection 
with the designated application. Licensee shall be further subject to the 
license terms of the appropriate license model for the Progress OpenAccess 
Runtime Product as identified in the Order and as described in this Exhibit A.

(ii)	NOTWITHSTANDING THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 3 OF THE AGREEMENT, LICENSEE 
UNDERSTANDS AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE PROGRESS OPENACCESS RUNTIME COMPONENTS 
DEPLOYED BY LICENSEE IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE CUSTOM DRIVER ARE PROVIDED "AS IS" 
WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR ARISING BY CUSTOM OR 
TRADE USAGE AND PROGRESS SPECIFICALLY MAKES NO WARRANTY OF MERACHANTABILITY OR 
OF FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NONINFRINGEMENT. 


LICENSE MODELS AND DEFINITIONS:
The license model for the Product(s) purchased is set forth in the Order.  The 
description of each Progress license model is set forth below.

For purposes of this Exhibit A, the following terms shall have the following 
definitions:

"Authorized User": An Authorized User is a single individual who has been 
designated to use the Product. 

"Client Device":  A Client Device is any input technology that allows the 
Licensee to access the Product, including but not limited to a workstation, a 
personal computer, a PDA device, a cellular phone, a laptop or other device 
that is operated by an individual.  

"Custom Driver": A Custom Driver is the data connectivity driver resulting from 
the use of the DataDirect OpenAccess Runtime Components in combination with the 
User Interface Provider.

 "Non-Human Operated Device":  A Non-Human Operated Device is a device that is 
not operated by an individual including, but not limited to, a temperature 
device, a production line bar code scanner, or a tracking device. 

"Platform":   A Platform is the specific combination of the hardware and the 
operating system, a change to either would constitute a platform change.  

"Process": A Process is any automated process that is not initiated by a Client 
Device or a Non-Human Operated Device and includes, without limitation, 
automated controls and background jobs.

"Progress OpenAccess Development Product(s)": Progress OpenAccess Development 
Product(s) are Product(s) (in object code form) specified in the Order that 
consist of a software development toolkit (SDK) that may be used to develop a 
User Interface Provider.

"Progress OpenAccess Runtime Components": Progress OpenAccess Runtime 
Components are runtime software components (in object code form) that are 
included in the Progress OpenAccess Development Product(s).

"Progress OpenAccess Runtime Product(s)": Progress OpenAccess Runtime 
Product(s) are the Progress OpenAccess Runtime Components (in object code form) 
specified in the Order that may be used in connection with the deployment of 
the Custom Driver in an internal production environment.

"Server": A logical computer with one or more CPUs on which the Product 
resides, along with the applications utilizing the Product, and which can be 
accessed by other computers.  The term "Server" includes, but is not limited 
to, web servers, batch servers and application servers.

"User Interface Provider": A User Interface Provider is the computer program 
code written by or for Licensee that provides the interface between the 
Progress OpenAccess Runtime Components and Licensee's data source.

Authorized User License: If the Product is licensed on an Authorized User 
basis, then the Product may be used on a single computing machine which may be 
accessed by the number of Authorized Users specified in the Order.  In no event 
shall the number of persons authorized to have access to the Product exceed the 
number of Authorized Users identified in the Order. The right to use the 
Product is not based on concurrent users, but instead on an actual "Authorized 
User" basis. Licensee must, upon request by Progress, identify each Authorized 
User who will have access to the Product and provide that information to 
Progress.

Connection Basis License (for DataDirect Connect for ODBC only):  If the 
Product is licensed on a Connection basis, then a license fee must be paid for 
both the maximum number of simultaneous Connections utilized by the Server and 
the maximum number of processors ("CPUs") utilized by the Server whether or not 
such access is simultaneous or consecutive. For the purposes of this provision 
only a "Connection" shall be defined as the driver state after a successful 
call to SQLConnect, SQLDriverConnect, or SQLBrowseConnect and before 
termination of this state, normally through a successful call to 
SQLDisconnect.  Servers utilizing dual core processing (or multiple core 
processing) or other multi-processor technology shall have each core processor 
count as one (1) CPU. The Product may only be used by Server-based applications 
running on that Server accessed by other computers and may not be installed via 
file sharing on a local area network file system.  

Connection Basis (for DataDirect Connect for JDBC only):  If the Product is 
licensed on a Connection basis, then a license fee must be paid for both the 
maximum number of simultaneous Connections utilized by the Server and the 
maximum number of processors ("CPUs") utilized by the Server whether or not 
such access is simultaneous or consecutive. For the purposes of this provision 
only a "Connection" shall be defined as the driver state after a successful 
call to the DriverManager.getConnection method or the driver's Driver.connect, 
DataSource.getConnection ConnectionPoolDataSource.getPooledConnection, 
XADataSource.getXAConnection, or 
ManagedConnectionFactory.createManagedConnection methods and before termination 
of this state, normally through a successful call to the driver's 
Connection.close, PooledConnection.close or ManagedConnection.destroy methods.  
Servers utilizing dual core processing (or multiple core processing) or other 
multi-processor technology shall have each core processor count as one (1) CPU. 
The Product may only be used by Server-based applications running on that 
Server accessed by other computers and may not be installed via file sharing on 
a local area network file system.  

Connection Basis (for DataDirect Connect for ADO.NET only):  If the Product is 
licensed on a Connection basis, then a license fee must be paid for both the 
maximum number of simultaneous Connections utilized by the Server and the 
maximum number of processors ("CPUs") utilized by the Server whether or not 
such access is simultaneous or consecutive. For the purposes of this provision 
only a "Connection" shall be defined as the provider state after a successful 
call to the Open method in the System.Data.Common.DbConnection class or the 
DDTek.DB2.DB2Connection class or the DDTek.Oracle.OracleConnection class or the 
DDTek.SQLServer.SQLServerConnection class or the DDTek.Sybase.SybaseConnection 
class and before termination of this state, normally through a successful call 
to the Close method in the System.Data.Common.DbConnection class or the 
DDTek.DB2.DB2Connection class or the DDTek.Oracle.OracleConnection class or  
the DDTek.SQLServer.SQLServerConnection class or the 
DDTek.Sybase.SybaseConnection class.  Servers utilizing dual core processing 
(or multiple core processing) or other multi-processor technology shall have 
each core processor count as one (1) CPU. The Product may only be used by 
Server-based applications running on that Server accessed by other computers 
and may not be installed via file sharing on a local area network file system. 

Core Licenses:   A Product licensed on a "Core" basis grants Licensee the right 
to run the Product on a single Core on a single server.  The total number of 
Cores on the machine may not exceed the total number licensed to Licensee. 
Additional Core License(s) are required for each Core of the server on which 
the Product runs, including, without limitation, servers configured for 
disaster recovery, load balancing, clustering, development, testing and 
reporting.  

For purposes of the "Core" license model:

 "Core" means a core of a CPU as allocated by Licensee made up of an 
independent processor combined onto a single integrated circuit or silicon 
chip, in both virtualized and/or non-virtualized environment, and regardless of 
whether used in a production or non-production (e.g. test, development) 
environment.

 "CPU" means a computer processing unit, also known as a processor or 
microprocessor. It can contain multiple cores in both virtualized and/or 
non-virtualized environment.

CPU:  A CPU License grants Licensee the right to run the Product, or an 
application which can access the Product, on a single core processing unit 
("CPU") on a single server and on a single Platform. Each processor core of a 
multiple core processor in a server shall count as one (1) CPU.  Additional CPU 
License(s) are required for each CPU that runs the Product, including, without 
limitation, servers configured for disaster recovery, load balancing, 
clustering, development, testing and reporting. A CPU License may not be 
transferred from one CPU or one Platform to another. 

Developer:   A Developer License limits Licensee's access and use of the 
Product to internal application development and support purposes only.  If the 
license is for components of the Product only, then such right is limited to 
such components.   Licensee shall be further subject to the license terms of 
the appropriate license model for the Product set forth in this Exhibit A.  A 
Developer License may not be transferred. 

Server:	A Server License grants Licensee the right to install and use a 
Product, or an application which can access the Product, on a single Server and 
on a single Platform.  Additional Server license(s) are required for each 
Server that runs the Product including, without limitation, Servers configured 
for disaster recovery, load balancing, clustering, development, testing and 
reporting.   A Server License may not be transferred from one from Server or 
Platform to another.

Disaster Recovery:  A Disaster Recovery License shall only be used by Licensee 
for the sole purpose of application recovery in the event a system fails or 
crashes or the Product or database files become corrupt.  Licensee shall be 
further subject to the license terms of the appropriate license model for the 
Product set forth in this Exhibit A. A Disaster Recovery License may be 
transferred from one server or CPU to another with prior notice to Progress so 
long as such change is permitted by the underlying license model.  No Disaster 
Recovery license is required for a switch from a primary server to secondary 
server so long as the primary server is permanently disabled.  However a 
Disaster Recovery license is required for any other temporary reassignment 
between the primary server and any other server.  The foregoing transfer right 
shall not affect the assignment prohibition set forth in Section 2.10 of this 
Agreement.

Evaluation:  If a Product is licensed on an evaluation basis, the Product may 
be used by Licensee solely for evaluation and testing purposes and not for 
deployment or production purposes for a period of fifteen (15) days from 
download or receipt (as the case may be) or at the end of such longer or 
shorter period of time as may be determined by Progress at its discretion.  
LICENSEE UNDERSTANDS AND ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE PRODUCT LICENSED TO LICENSEE 
PURSUANT TO AN EVALUATION LICENSE CONTAINS A DISABLING DEVICE THAT WILL 
AUTOMATICALLY DISABLE THE PRODUCT FIFTEEN (15) DAYS FROM INSTALLATION OR AT THE 
END OF SUCH LONGER OR SHORTER PERIOD OF TIME AS MAY BE DETERMINED BY PROGRESS 
AT ITS DISCRETION. THE WARRANTIES SET FORTH IN SECTION 3 OF THE AGREEMENT DO 
NOT APPLY.  PROGRESS MAKES NO WARRANTIES WITH RESPECT TO A PRODUCT LICENSED ON 
AN EVALUATION BASIS, EXPRESS, IMPLIED, OR ARISING BY CUSTOM OR TRADE USAGE, AND 
SPECIFICALLY MAKES NO WARRANTY OF INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR OF FITNESS 
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  Licensee shall be further subject to the license 
terms of the appropriate license model for the Product set forth in this 
Exhibit A.  

z/OS Operating System Image Basis:  If the Product is licensed to Licensee on 
an z/OS Operating System Image basis, then a license fee must be paid for the 
number of z/OS Operating System Images where the Product is installed.  
Licensee shall identify the number of z/OS Operating System Images where the 
Product is installed and provide the information to Progress.

MVS or OS/390 Operating System Image Basis:  If the Product is licensed to 
Licensee on an MVS or OS/390 Operating System Image basis, then a license fee 
must be paid for the number of MVS or OS/390 Operating System Images, whichever 
is applicable, where the Product is installed.  Licensee shall identify the 
number of MVS or OS/390 Operating System Images, whichever is applicable, where 
the Product is installed and provide the information to Progress. 

Testing and Staging License:  A Testing and Staging License grants Licensee the 
right to use the Product for internal quality assurance testing purposes only 
and Licensee may not deploy the Product in a production environment.  Licensee 
shall be further subject to the license terms of the appropriate license model 
for the Product set forth in this Exhibit A.  A Testing and Staging License may 
not be transferred.

Workstation Basis:  If the Product is licensed on a Workstation basis, each 
Workstation using or accessing the Product must be licensed.  A license must be 
purchased for each Workstation using or accessing the Product.  A "Workstation" 
shall be defined as a computer that is operated, either attended or via remote 
access, by one person at a time, and cannot be used by more than one person, 
directly or indirectly, simultaneously.  In no event shall the number of 
workstations utilizing or accessing the Product exceed the number of 
Workstations identified in the Order.



THIRD PARTY TERMS AND RESTRICTIONS:

The Product may contain or be accompanied by certain third-party components 
which are subject to additional restrictions.  These components, if any, are 
identified in, and subject to, special license terms and conditions set forth 
in either the "[readme].txt" file or the [notices.txt] file accompanying the 
Product ("Special Notices"). The Special Notices include important licensing 
and warranty information and disclaimers.  In the event of conflict between the 
Special Notices and the other portions of this Agreement, the Special Notices 
will take precedence (but solely with respect to the non-proprietary third 
party component(s) to which the Special Notice relates). Unless otherwise 
expressly stated in the Special Notices for any particular third party 
component, all third party components included in or accompanying the Product 
may be used solely in connection with the operation of the Product subject to 
and in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

PROGRESS MAINTENANCE AND SUPPORT PLAN (IF ANY):

As indicated in the applicable Order. 


Harmonized EULA for  DataDirect Connect, OpenAccess and Data Integration 
Products (revised 17-October-2012)
(EULA for DataDirect Connect for ODBC 7.1, DataDirect Connect64 for ODBC 7.1 , 
DataDirect Connect XE for ODBC 7.1, DataDirect Connect64 XE for ODBC 7.1, 
DataDirect Connect for JDBC 5.1, and DataDirect Connect XE for JDBC 5.1)

