Progress DataDirect Connect for ODBC v7.1
Progress DataDirect Connect64 for ODBC v7.1
Progress DataDirect Connect XE for ODBC v7.1
Progress DataDirect Connect64 XE for ODBC v7.1 

The listing of the Third Party Components (as defined below) contained in this 
notices.txt file is applicable for each of the above-identified products.

Copyright (c) (1987-2012) Progress Software Corporation and/or its subsidiaries 
or affiliates. All rights reserved.

Portions of the Products include certain open source and commercial third party 
components listed below ("Third Party Components"). The authors of the Third 
Party Components require Progress Software Corporation ("PSC") to include the 
following notices and additional licensing terms as a condition of PSC's use of 
such Third Party Components.  The Third Party Components described below are 
provided by PSC solely on an "AS IS" basis, without any warranty from PSC, 
unless otherwise stated.  PSC disclaims all warranties and indemnities with 
respect to the Third Party Components, express or implied, and assumes no 
liability with respect to the Third Party Components.  You acknowledge that the 
authors of the Third Party Components have no obligation to provide support to 
you for the Third Party Components or the Product.  You hereby undertake to 
comply with all licenses related to the applicable Third Party Components.

The Progress DataDirect Connect for ODBC drivers for MySQL Enterprise(R) were 
developed using the MySQL(R) Protocol Documentation whose copyright is owned 
by, and licensed by Progress from, Oracle. If Progress DataDirect Connect for 
ODBC is licensed for the MySQL database the following shall apply: You must 
purchase commercially licensed MySQL database software or a MySQL Enterprise 
subscription in order to use the Progress DataDirect Connect for ODBC driver 
for MySQL Enterprise with MySQL software.

1.	Special Notices Regarding Open Source Third Party Components 
incorporated in the Products:

(1) 	Apache License Version 2.0

Progress DataDirect Connect for ODBC v7.1, Progress DataDirect Connect64 for 
ODBC v7.1, Progress DataDirect Connect XE for ODBC v7.1, Progress DataDirect 
Connect64 XE for ODBC v7.1 each incorporate Apache CXF v2.4.3, Commons 
HttpClient v3.1, Commons Logging v1.1.1, Log4J v1.2.8, TagSoup HTML Parser for 
JAVA v1.2, and Woodstox v4.0.5 from The Apache Software Foundation.  Such 
technology is subject to the following terms and conditions: Apache License 
Version 2.0, January 2004 http://www.apache.org/licenses/ TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION 
1. Definitions.
"License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and 
distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document. "Licensor" 
shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright owner that 
is granting the License. "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting 
entity and all other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under 
common control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition, "control" 
means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management 
of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty 
percent (50%) or more of the outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership 
of such entity. "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity 
exercising permissions granted by this License. "Source" form shall mean the 
preferred form for making modifications, including but not limited to software 
source code, documentation source, and configuration files. "Object" form shall 
mean any form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation of a 
Source form, including but not limited to compiled object code, generated 
documentation, and conversions to other media types. "Work" shall mean the work 
of authorship, whether in Source or Object form, made available under the 
License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is included in or attached to 
the work (an example is provided in the Appendix below). "Derivative Works" 
shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object form, that is based on (or 
derived from) the Work and for which the editorial revisions, annotations, 
elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a whole, an original work of 
authorship. For the purposes of this License, Derivative Works shall not 
include works that remain separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to 
the interfaces of, the Work and Derivative Works thereof. "Contribution" shall 
mean any work of authorship, including the original version of the Work and any 
modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is 
intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright 
owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of the 
copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted" means any 
form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent to the Licensor or 
its representatives, including but not limited to communication on electronic 
mailing lists, source code control systems, and issue tracking systems that are 
managed by, or on behalf of, the Licensor for the purpose of discussing and 
improving the Work, but excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or 
otherwise designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution." 
"Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf 
of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently 
incorporated within the Work. 
2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this 
License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, 
non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable copyright license to 
reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform, 
sublicense, and distribute the Work and such Derivative Works in Source or 
Object form.
3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of this 
License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, 
non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable (except as stated in this 
section) patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, 
and otherwise transfer the Work, where such license applies only to those 
patent claims licensable by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by 
their Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s) with the 
Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent 
litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a 
lawsuit) alleging that the Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work 
constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then any patent 
licenses granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate as of 
the date such litigation is filed. 
4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or 
Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in 
Source or Object form, provided that You meet the following conditions:
(a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a copy 
of this License; and
(b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating that 
You changed the files; and
(c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works that You 
distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from the 
Source form of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain to any 
part of the Derivative Works; and
(d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its distribution, then 
any Derivative Works that You distribute must include a readable copy of the 
attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices 
that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one of the 
following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the 
Derivative Works; within the Source form or documentation, if provided along 
with the Derivative Works; or, within a display generated by the Derivative 
Works, if and wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents 
of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do not modify the 
License. You may add Your own attribution notices within Derivative Works that 
You distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, 
provided that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed as 
modifying the License. You may add Your own copyright statement to Your 
modifications and may provide additional or different license terms and 
conditions for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or for 
any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and 
distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in this 
License. 
5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any 
Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the 
Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of this License, without any 
additional terms or conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall 
supersede or modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have 
executed with Licensor regarding such Contributions.
6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, 
trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required 
for reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and 
reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.
7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in 
writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each Contributor provides its 
Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY 
KIND, either express or implied, including, without limitation, any warranties 
or conditions of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A 
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the 
appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any risks 
associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.
8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory, whether in 
tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by 
applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in 
writing, shall any Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any 
direct, indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages of any 
character arising as a result of this License or out of the use or inability to 
use the Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work 
stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial 
damages or losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the 
possibility of such damages.
9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing the Work or 
Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer, and charge a fee for, 
acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or other liability obligations 
and/or rights consistent with this License. However, in accepting such 
obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf and on Your sole 
responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and only if You agree 
to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability 
incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason of your 
accepting any such warranty or additional liability. END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work. To apply the Apache 
License to your work, attach the following boilerplate notice, with the fields 
enclosed by brackets "[]" replaced with your own identifying information. 
(Don't include the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate 
comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a file or class name 
and description of purpose be included on the same "printed page" as the 
copyright notice for easier identification within third-party archives. 
Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner] Licensed under the Apache License, 
Version 2.0 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance 
with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at 
http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 Unless required by applicable law or 
agreed to in writing, software distributed under the License is distributed on 
an "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express 
or implied. See the License for the specific language governing permissions and 
limitations under the License.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTICE text file for Apache CXF v2.4.3:
Apache CXF
Copyright 2006-2011 The Apache Software Foundation This product includes 
software developed at The Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).
This product also includes schemas and specification developed by:
      - the W3C consortium (http://www.w3c.org)
      (http://www.w3.org/XML/1998/namespace)
This product also includes WS-* schemas developed by International
   Business Machines Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, BEA Systems, 
   TIBCO Software, SAP AG, Sonic Software, and VeriSign
   (http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/2003-02-11.xsd)
   (http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2004/08/addressing/)
   (http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/wsdl/http)
   (http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/02/rm/wsrm.xsd)
   (http://www.w3.org/2005/08/addressing/ws-addr.xsd)
The product contains code (StaxBuilder.java) that is
  Copyright (C) 2000-2004 Jason Hunter & Brett McLaughlin.
  All rights reserved.
  See the NOTICE.jdom file for additional information
Java classes (source and binary) under org.apache.cxf.jaxws.javaee
are generated from schema available here:
(http://java.sun.com/xml/ns/javaee/javaee_5.xsd)
This Product also includes software developed by David Heinemeier Hansson.
(http://dev.rubyonrails.org/browser/trunk/activesupport/lib/active_support/infle
ctions.rb)
This product includes software Copyright University of Southampton IT 
Innovation Centre, 2009 
(http://www.it-innovation.soton.ac.uk). 
This product also includes MTOSI wsdl and schemas developed by the
TeleManagement Forum (http://www.tmforum.org/browse.aspx). The original
MTOSI wsdl and schemas can be download from
(http://sourceforge.net/projects/mtosi-ri)
Portions of the included XmlSchema library are Copyright 2006 International 
Business Machines Corp.
Portions of the included xml-apis library were originally based on the 
following:
   - software copyright (c) 1999, IBM Corporation., http://www.ibm.com.
   - software copyright (c) 1999, Sun Microsystems., http://www.sun.com.
   - software copyright (c) 2000 World Wide Web Consortium, http://www.w3.org
Portions of the included xmlbeans library were originally based on the 
following:
   - software copyright (c) 2000-2003, BEA Systems, <http://www.bea.com/>.
Portions of the file cxf-utils.js derives from code marked:
This code was written by Tyler Akins and has been placed in the public domain.  
It would be nice if you left this header intact.
Base64 code from Tyler Akins -- http://rumkin.com
Additional copyright notices and license terms applicable are present in the 
licenses directory of this distribution.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTICE text file for Commons HttpClient v3.1:
Apache Jakarta HttpClient Copyright 1999-2007 The Apache Software Foundation 
This product includes software developed by The Apache Software Foundation 
(http://www.apache.org/).
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTICE text file for Commons Logging v1.1.1:
Apache Commons Logging Copyright 2003-2007 The Apache Software Foundation This 
product includes software developed by The Apache Software Foundation 
(http://www.apache.org/).
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTICE text file for Log4J v1.2.8:
Apache log4j Copyright 2007 The Apache Software Foundation This product 
includes software developed at
The Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

(2)	BSD-style Licenses:

(a)	Progress DataDirect Connect for ODBC v7.1, Progress DataDirect 
Connect64 for ODBC v7.1, Progress DataDirect Connect XE for ODBC v7.1, Progress 
DataDirect Connect64 XE for ODBC v7.1 each incorporate ICU Library v4.2.1 from 
International Business Machines Corporation.  Such technology is subject to the 
following terms and conditions:  ICU License - ICU 1.8.1 and later ICU License 
- ICU 1.8.1 and later COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE. Copyright (c) 1995-2010 
International Business Machines Corporation and others. All rights reserved. 
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of 
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in 
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to 
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the 
Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, 
provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear 
in all copies of the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and 
this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. THE SOFTWARE IS 
PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING 
BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE 
COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR 
ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER 
RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, 
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE 
USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE. Except as contained in this notice, the 
name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to 
promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written 
authorization of the copyright holder.  All trademarks and registered 
trademarks mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.

(b)	Progress DataDirect Connect for ODBC v7.1, Progress DataDirect 
Connect64 for ODBC v7.1, Progress DataDirect Connect XE for ODBC v7.1, Progress 
DataDirect Connect64 XE for ODBC v7.1 each incorporate HyperSQL  database 
v1.8.0.10 from The HSQL Development Group.  Such technology is subject to the 
following terms and conditions: Copyright (c) 2001-2005, The HSQL Development 
Group All rights reserved. Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, 
with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following 
conditions are met: Redistributions of source code must retain the above 
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.  
Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this 
list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or 
other materials provided with the distribution. Neither the name of the HSQL 
Development Group nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or 
promote products derived from this software without specific prior written 
permission. THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS 
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, 
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL HSQL DEVELOPMENT GROUP, HSQLDB.ORG, OR 
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, 
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT 
OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS 
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN 
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING 
IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY 
OF SUCH DAMAGE.

(c)	Progress DataDirect Connect for ODBC v7.1, Progress DataDirect 
Connect64 for ODBC v7.1, Progress DataDirect Connect XE for ODBC v7.1, Progress 
DataDirect Connect64 XE for ODBC v7.1 each incorporate OpenSSL v1.0.0d from The 
OpenSSL Project. Such technology is subject to the following terms and 
conditions:  LICENSE ISSUES ============== The OpenSSL toolkit stays under a 
dual license, i.e. both the conditions of the OpenSSL License and the original 
SSLeay license apply to the toolkit. See below for the actual license texts. 
Actually both licenses are BSD-style Open Source licenses. In case of any 
license issues related to OpenSSL please contact openssl-core@openssl.org.
OpenSSL License --------------- 
Copyright (c) 1998-2011 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this 
list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, 
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation 
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must 
display the following acknowledgment: "This product includes software developed 
by the OpenSSL Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. 
(http://www.openssl.org/)"
4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to 
endorse or promote products derived from this software without prior written 
permission. For written permission, please contact openssl-core@openssl.org.
5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL" nor may 
"OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written permission of the OpenSSL 
Project.
6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following 
acknowledgment: "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL 
Project for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESSED OR 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO 
EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, 
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, 
BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, 
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE 
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF 
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
====================================================================
This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young 
(eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim Hudson 
(tjh@cryptsoft.com). 
 Original SSLeay License  ----------------------- Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric 
Young (eay@cryptsoft.com) All rights reserved.
This package is an SSL implementation written by Eric Young 
(eay@cryptsoft.com). The implementation was written so as to conform with 
Netscapes SSL. This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as 
long as the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions 
apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA, lhash, DES, 
etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation included with this 
distribution is covered by the same copyright terms except that the holder is 
Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com). Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any 
Copyright notices in the code are not to be removed. If this package is used in 
a product, Eric Young should be given attribution as the author of the parts of 
the library used. This can be in the form of a textual message at program 
startup or in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package. 
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright notice, this list 
of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, 
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation 
and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software must 
display the following acknowledgement: "This product includes cryptographic 
software written by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)" The word 'cryptographic' 
can be left out if the rouines from the library being used are not 
cryptographic related :-).
4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from the 
apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement: "This 
product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"
THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO 
EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, 
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT 
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR 
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF 
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE 
OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF 
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or 
derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be 
copied and put under another distribution licence [including the GNU Public 
Licence.]

(d)	Progress DataDirect Connect for ODBC v7.1, Progress DataDirect 
Connect64 for ODBC v7.1, Progress DataDirect Connect XE for ODBC v7.1, Progress 
DataDirect Connect64 XE for ODBC v7.1 each incorporate PostSQL Database 
Management System v3.0.  Such technology is subject to the following terms and 
conditions:  PostgreSQL is released under the BSD license. PostgreSQL Database 
Management System (formerly known as Postgres, then as Postgres95) Portions 
Copyright (c) 1996-2005, The PostgreSQL Global Development Group Portions 
Copyright (c) 1994, The Regents of the University of California Permission to 
use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any 
purpose, without fee, and without a written agreement is hereby granted, 
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph and the following 
two paragraphs appear in all copies. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE UNIVERSITY OF 
CALIFORNIA BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, INCLUDING LOST PROFITS, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS 
SOFTWARE AND ITS DOCUMENTATION, EVEN IF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA HAS BEEN 
ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA 
SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. THE 
SOFTWARE PROVIDED HEREUNDER IS ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE UNIVERSITY OF 
CALIFORNIA HAS NO OBLIGATIONS TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, 
ENHANCEMENTS, OR MODIFICATIONS. Why not the GNU General Public License? People 
often ask why PostgreSQL is not released under the GNU General Public License. 
The simple answer is because we like the BSD license and do not want to change 
it. If you are keen to read more about this topic, then please take a look in 
the Archives at any of the many threads on this subject, but please don't start 
yet another debate on the subject! 

2.	Special Notices Regarding Commercially Licensed Third Party Components 
incorporated in the Products:

(a) Progress DataDirect Connect for ODBC v7.1, Progress DataDirect Connect64 
for ODBC v7.1, Progress DataDirect Connect XE for ODBC v7.1, Progress 
DataDirect Connect64 XE for ODBC v7.1, XML driver only, each incorporate Visual 
Parse ++ v3.0 from SandStone Technology Inc.  Such technology is subject to the 
following terms and conditions: LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR SANDSTONE SOFTWARE. This 
License Agreement (LA) is a legal agreement between you (either an individual 
or a single entity) (User) and SandStone Technology Inc. (SandStone) for the 
Visual Parse++ product (Product), which includes computer software and may 
include associated media, printed materials, and online or electronic 
documentation. By installing, copying, or otherwise using the Product, User 
agrees to be bound by the terms of this LA. If User does not agree to the terms 
of this LA, do not install or use the Product.  SOFTWARE PRODUCT LICENSE. The 
Product is protected by copyright laws and international copyright treaties, as 
well as other intellectual property laws and treaties. The Product is licensed, 
not sold. GRANT OF LICENSE.  You may install and use one copy of the Product on 
a single computer for a single user. If this is a trial version, it will be 
good for 15 days from the date User first uses the Product. After this trial 
period, you must purchase the Product before use.  COPYRIGHT. All title and 
copyrights in and to the Product (including but not limited to any images, 
photographs, animation's, video, audio, music, text, and applets incorporated 
into the Product), the accompanying printed materials, and any copies of the 
Product are owned by SandStone or its suppliers. The Product is protected by 
copyright laws and international treaty provisions. Therefore, you must treat 
the Product like any other copyrighted material except that you may either (a) 
make one copy of the Product solely for backup or archival purposes or (b) 
install the Product on a single computer provided you keep the original solely 
for backup or archival purposes. You may not copy the printed materials 
accompanying the Product. DESCRIPTION OF OTHER RIGHTS AND LIMITATIONS. 
Limitations on Reverse Engineering, Decompilation, and Disassembly. You may not 
reverse engineer, decompile, or disassemble the Product, except and only to the 
extent that such activity is expressly permitted by applicable law 
notwithstanding this limitation. No Separation of Components. The Product is 
licensed as a single product and neither the software programs comprising the 
Product, libraries, other files, or files produced by product, may be separated 
for use on more than one computer, or used by more than one user. Rental. You 
may not rent or lease the Product. Termination. Without prejudice to any other 
rights, SandStone may terminate this LA if you fail to comply with the terms 
and conditions of this LA. In such event, you must destroy all copies of the 
Product. LIMITED WARRANTY. SandStone expressly disclaims any warranty for the 
Product. The Product and any related documentation is provided as is without 
warranty of any kind, either express or implied, including, without limitation, 
the implied warranties or merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or 
noninfringement. The entire risk arising out of use or performance of the 
Product remains with User.  NATLANG. There is a feature of Product called 
NatLang, which refers to the ability of Product to process natural languages, 
among other things. You may use the NatLang visual capabilities for 
experimenting with this feature provided that: 1. If you decide to integrate 
NatLang features into your product, you use the Sandstone source code and 
libraries that you can license from Sandstone. In other words, we are allowing 
unrestricted use of this feature for experimental purposes, provided that if 
you design something with NatLang that is to be integrated into your 
application program, you must license the source code and other libraries from 
Sandstone for doing so. There are royalties and other fees associated with 
integrating the NatLang features into your application program, contact 
Sandstone for details. COMPILED PROGRAMS. You may write and compile your own 
application program using the Software in this package, including any 
libraries, source code, and other files included for such purpose. You are 
granted a non-exclusive, royalty free, license to distribute your application, 
provided the following conditions are met: 1. Your application runs on Windows 
3.x, Windows 95, or Windows NT operating system with an Intel x86 compatible 
processor. 2. Each user who compiles or accesses any of the libraries,  
generated files, or other files that area a part of Product must have a fully 
paid and licensed version of Product. 3. You distribute your application in 
executable form only in conjunction with and as a part of your software 
application product which adds significant and primary functionality; 4. You do 
not include any libraries, header files, or any other files included with 
Product in your application distribution, except as provided for below under 
REDISTRIBUTABLES; 5. You indemnify, hold harmless, and defend SandStone from 
and against any claims or lawsuits, including attorney's fees, that arise or 
result from the use or distribution of your software application product. This 
section does NOT cover the feature of Product called NatLang. If you wish to 
integrate the NatLang features into your product, see the section above, and 
contact Sandstone for royalty and other information. REDISTRIBUTABLES.  Certain 
files included with product are designated as Redistributable. The files are 
SSVP210.OCX. You are granted a non-exclusive, royalty free license to copy, 
reproduce, and distribute the Redistributables, provided the following 
conditions are met: 1. Each user who compiles or accesses any of the 
libraries,  generated files, or other files that area a part of Product must 
have a fully paid and licensed version of Product. 2. You distribute your 
application in executable form only in conjunction with and as a part of your 
software application product which adds significant and primary functionality; 
3. Your end-user cannot further redistribute Redistributables. 4. Your end-user 
cannot have access to the programmable features of Redistributables, either 
directly or indirectly. 5. You indemnify, hold harmless, and defend SandStone 
from and against any claims or lawsuits, including attorney's fees, that arise 
or result from the use or distribution of your software application product. 
CUSTOMER REMEDIES. SandStone and its suppliers' entire liability and your 
exclusive remedy shall be, at SandStone's option, either (a) return of the 
price paid, or (b) repair or replacement of the Product that does not meet 
SandStone's Limited Warranty and which is returned to SandStone with a copy of 
your receipt. This Limited Warranty is void if failure of the Product has 
resulted from accident, abuse, or misapplication. Any replacement Product will 
be warranted for the remainder of the original warranty period or thirty (30) 
days, whichever is longer. Outside the United States, neither these remedies 
nor any product support services offered by SandStone are available without 
proof of purchase from an authorized international source. U.S. GOVERNMENT 
RESTRICTED RIGHTS. The Product and documentation are provided with RESTRICTED 
RIGHTS. Use, duplication, or disclosure by the Government is subject to 
restrictions as set forth in subparagraph (c)(1)(ii) of the Rights in Technical 
Data and Computer Software clause at DFARS 252.227-7013 or subparagraphs (c)(1) 
and (2) of the Commercial Computer Software-Restricted Rights at 48 CFR 
52.227-19, as applicable. Manufacturer is SandStone Technology Inc., 939 Coast 
Blvd., Suite 4C, La Jolla, CA 92037. NO LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES. In no event 
shall SandStone or its suppliers be liable for any damages whatsoever 
(including, without limitation, damages for loss of business profits, business 
interruption, loss of business information, or any other pecuniary loss) 
arising out of the use of or inability to use this SandStone product, even if 
SandStone has been advised of the possibility of such damages. Because some 
states/jurisdictions do not allow the exclusion or limitation of liability for 
consequential or incidental damages, the above limitation may not apply to you. 
MISCELLANEOUS. If User acquired this product in the United States, this LA is 
governed by the laws of the State of California. If this product was acquired 
outside the United States, then local laws may apply. Should you have any 
questions concerning this LA, or if you desire to contact SandStone for any 
reason, please write to SandStone Technology Inc., 939 Coast Blvd., Suite 4C, 
La Jolla, CA 92037. NO OTHER WARRANTIES. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY 
APPLICABLE LAW, SANDSTONE AND ITS SUPPLIERS DISCLAIM ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, 
EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, WITH REGARD TO THE 
SOFTWARE PRODUCT, AND ANY ACCOMPANYING HARDWARE. THIS LIMITED WARRANTY GIVES 
YOU SPECIFIC LEGAL RIGHTS. YOU MAY HAVE OTHERS, WHICH VARY FROM 
STATE/JURISDICTION TO STATE/JURISDICTION. NO LIABILITY FOR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES. TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL 
SANDSTONE OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES WHATSOEVER (INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR 
LOSS OF BUSINESS PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION, LOSS OF BUSINESS INFORMATION, 
OR ANY OTHER PECUNIARY LOSS) ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE THE 
SOFTWARE PRODUCT, EVEN IF SANDSTONE HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH 
DAMAGES. BECAUSE SOME STATES AND JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR 
LIMITATION OF LIABILITY FOR CONSEQUENTIAL OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES, THE ABOVE 
LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.  

(b) Progress DataDirect Connect for ODBC v7.1, Progress DataDirect Connect64 
for ODBC v7.1, Progress DataDirect Connect XE for ODBC v7.1, Progress 
DataDirect Connect64 XE for ODBC v7.1 each incorporate InstallAnywhere 
Enterprise Edition 2011 SP4 from Flexera Software, Inc.  Such technology is 
subject to the following terms and conditions: END-USER LICENSE AGREEMENT -- 
InstallAnywhere(R)
IMPORTANT-READ CAREFULLY: This End-User License Agreement ("Agreement") is a 
legal contract between you (either (a) an individual user or (b) a business 
organization ("you") and Licensor (as designated below) for the InstallAnywhere 
software, including any associated media, printed materials and electronic 
documentation (the "Software").
By clicking on the "I ACCEPT" button, by opening the package that contains the 
Software, or by copying, downloading, accessing or otherwise using the 
Software, you agree to be bound by the terms of this Agreement and you 
represent that you are authorized to enter into this Agreement on behalf of 
your corporate entity (if applicable). If you do not wish to be bound by the 
terms of this Agreement, click the "I DO NOT ACCEPT" button, and do not 
install, access or use the Software. 
As used herein, for users in Japan, "Licensor" means Flexera Software GK, a 
Godo Kaisha organized under the laws of Japan; for users in Europe, Middle 
East, or Africa, "Licensor" means Flexera Software Ltd., a private company 
limited by shares and incorporated in England and Wales with company number 
6524874; for users outside of the countries listed above, "Licensor" means 
Flexera Software, Inc., a Delaware corporation. 
EVALUATION SOFTWARE
If you have received the Software for purposes of evaluation, regardless of how 
labeled, the use of the Software is limited to a specified period of time, as 
detailed in the email accompanying the download instructions (the "Evaluation 
Period") and all use will be governed by the terms set forth below.
1. Grant of License. Licensor grants you a limited, personal, internal use, 
non-exclusive, non-transferable license to use the Software solely to evaluate 
its suitability for your internal business requirements during the Evaluation 
Period. Without limiting the foregoing, you may not use the Software during the 
Evaluation Period to create publicly distributed computer software or for any 
other commercial purpose. This license may be terminated by Licensor at any 
time upon notice to you and will automatically terminate, without notice, upon 
the first to occur of the following: (a) the completion of your evaluation of 
the Software or (b) the expiration of the Evaluation Period.
2. Limited Use Software. Portions of the full-use version of the Software may 
be withheld or unusable and use of the Software may require accessing portions 
of the Software remotely through the Internet. Full use of the Software may be 
restricted by technological protections.
3. Disclaimer of Warranty. THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ONLY FOR EVALUATION 
PURPOSES ON AN "AS IS"; BASIS. LICENSOR EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, 
REPRESENTATIONS AND CONDITIONS INCLUDING THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES AND/OR 
CONDITIONS OF MERCHANTABILITY, SATISFACTORY QUALITY FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR 
PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.
4. Limitation of Liability. IN NO EVENT WILL LICENSOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY 
DAMAGES, INCLUDING LOST PROFITS OR DATA, OR OTHER INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL 
DAMAGES, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE SOFTWARE OR ANY DATA 
SUPPLIED THEREWITH, EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF 
SUCH DAMAGES, OR FOR ANY CLAIM BY ANY OTHER PARTY. In no case will Licensor's 
liability for damages hereunder exceed fifty dollars (US $50). For Users 
Outside of the United States, Canada or Mexico LICENSOR DOES NOT LIMIT OR 
EXCLUDE ITS LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY CAUSED BY ITS NEGLIGENCE.
SOFTWARE LICENSE
1. Grant of License. Upon your payment of the fees shown on the invoice and 
acceptance of this Agreement, Licensor grants you a limited, personal, 
non-exclusive license to install and use the Software on the terms and 
conditions set forth herein.
a. Node-Locked Licenses: If you have licensed under the node-locked model, your 
license grant is as follows. You may install and use one copy of the Software 
on a single computer only for your internal business purposes. A node-locked 
license is limited to use by a single individual on a single computer or 
virtual image; sharing of node-locked licenses between individuals sharing a 
computer is not allowed, unless each individual accessing or using the Software 
has acquired a license for the Software. For the avoidance of doubt, a license 
is required for each individual user of the Software on a computer, even if 
such user is logging into a common or shared account. Copying a virtual image 
for the purposes of using the image either simultaneously or as a replacement 
on another machine is not allowed; however, you may make a reasonable number of 
backup and/or archival copies. 

Node Locked Licenses may be used by You in a virtualized environment, provided 
that the number of virtualized images used does not exceed the total number of 
Node-Locked Licenses You have acquired and provided that the Node-Locked 
license is not used concurrently, in conjunction with or contemporaneously with 
the virtualized image. 
b. Concurrent Licenses: If you have licensed under the concurrent licensing 
model, you may install the Software on any machine for your internal business 
purposes only. The number of machines that may use the Software concurrently at 
any time will be governed by the number of concurrent licenses specified on the 
original invoice. All machines using the Software must have the ability to 
communicate with a license server to be authorized to use the Software. Under 
Concurrent Licensing model, the InstallAnywhere IDE shall not be used for 
automated build processes on dedicated build machines. 
c. Standalone Build Licenses: The copy of the Software on the "build server" is 
used by automated processes, rather than by an individual user. 
i. If you have licensed the InstallAnywhere Standalone Build Node-Lock 
Software, You may install and use one copy of the Software on a single computer 
residing on your premises only for your internal business purposes. 
ii. If you have licensed InstallAnywhere Standalone Build Concurrent Licenses, 
the Software may be installed and used on any machines residing on your 
premises. The number of machines that may use the Software concurrently at any 
time will be governed by the number of concurrent licenses specified on the 
original invoice. All machines using the standalone build component of the 
Software must have the ability to communicate with a license server to be 
authorized to use the Software. 
For the avoidance of doubt, if the Software is installed or accessed through a 
network, in any form, You must purchase additional licenses for each user that 
accesses the Software through the network. 
You may make one back up and/or archival copy of the Software. 
2. Restrictions on Use of Software. You may not (a) make the Software available 
for use by others in any service bureau or similar arrangement; (b) distribute, 
sublicense, transfer, or lend the Software to any third party; or (c) 
disassemble or reverse engineer (except in European Union countries, to the 
extent allowed by law) the Software or (d) copy or adapt the Software for the 
purpose of error correction or making derivative works. You may copy the 
Software solely for backup/archival purposes, provided that you include all 
copyright and similar rights notices. Licensor (or its licensor) retains all 
right, title, and interest in the Software (and in all copies). Unauthorized 
copying and modification of the Software is not permitted.
If you have a license to the InstallAnywhere Collaboration or InstallAnywhere 
Enterprise, you may use the Software for the purposes of creating unit test 
installations for your own exclusive use. You may use the software as a plug-in 
to the Eclipse Open Source IDE. Licensor is not licensing to you any right, 
title, and interest with respect to the Eclipse Open Source IDE; your use of 
the Eclipse Open Source IDE is subject to your acceptance of the terms and 
conditions of the end-user license agreement from Eclipse Foundation for that 
product.
You acknowledge that the Software does or will contain license management 
functionality, including but not limited to node-locking, user counting, 
expiring licenses, silent activations (with or without user intervention) and 
the like. Licensor asserts that its use of such license management 
functionality is generally limited to ensuring adherence to its license 
agreements/models and not generally for purposes of "self-help." 
3. Shared Use on a Single Computer. Subject to the exceptions set forth herein, 
a copy of the Software installed on a single common machine may be shared for 
internal use by your employees, provided that a license has been purchased for 
each individual user.
4. Redistributable Files. The Software component parts may not be separated for 
use on more than one computer, except as set forth in this Agreement. You may 
copy the files specifically identified in the documentation as 
"redistributables" and redistribute such files to your end users of your 
products, provided that: (a) all such distribution is done solely with the 
redistributables as an integral part of your software installations; (b) all 
copies of the redistributables must be exact and unmodified; and (c) you grant 
your end users a limited, personal, non-exclusive and non-transferable license 
to use the redistributables only to the extent required for the permitted 
operation of your products and not to distribute them further. You will 
reproduce with the redistributables all applicable trademark and copyright 
notices that accompany the Software, but you may not use Licensor's name, logos 
or trademarks to market your products.
5. Limited Warranty and Disclaimer of Warranty. Licensor warrants that:
a. it has the right and authority to grant the rights described in this 
Agreement, and; 
b. the Software, as provided, will substantially perform the functions 
described in the documentation when operated in the intended environment for a 
period of ninety (90) days from the date of delivery (the "Warranty Period"). 
THE WARRANTIES ABOVE ARE EXCLUSIVE AND IN LIEU OF ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, 
REPRESENTATIONS OR CONDITIONS EXPRESS OR IMPLIED. LICENSOR EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS 
ANY WARRANTIES AND/OR CONDITIONS OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, 
SATISFACTORY QUALITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Licensor does not 
warrant that the Software will (a) achieve specific results, (b) operate 
without interruption, or (c) be error free.
6. Ownership. This Agreement does not convey to you any rights of ownership in 
the Software. All right, title, and interest in the Software and in any ideas, 
know-how, and programs which are developed by Licensor in the course of 
providing any technical services, including any enhancements or modifications 
made to the Software, shall at all times remain the property of Licensor or its 
licensor. You acknowledge and agree that the Software is licensed, not sold. 
You shall not permit the Software to be accessed or used by anyone other than 
your employees whose duties require such access or use.
You will not remove, modify or alter any of Licensor's copyright, trademark or 
proprietary rights notices from any part of the Software, including but not 
limited to any such notices contained in the physical and/or electronic media 
or documentation, in the Setup Wizard dialogue or 'about' boxes, in any of the 
runtime resources and/or in any web-presence or web-enabled notices, code or 
other embodiments originally contained in or otherwise created by the Software, 
or in any archival or back-up copies, if applicable.
7. Assignment/Transfer of Software. You may not, by operation of law or 
otherwise, transfer any license rights or other interests in Evaluation 
Software, or Software labeled "Not for Resale" or "NFR." You may transfer the 
license granted hereunder, on a permanent basis, provided that such transfer is 
the result of a merger, acquisition or other corporate action (such as a 
divestiture), and (i) you permanently and wholly transfer all your rights under 
this Agreement; (ii) you retain no copies (whole or partial); (iii) you 
permanently and wholly transfer all of the Software (including component parts, 
media, printed materials, upgrades, prior versions, and authenticity 
certificates); and (iv) the transferee agrees to abide by all the terms of this 
Agreement. You may not transfer this license or the Software directly or 
indirectly for purposes of convenience such as consignment, without Licensor's 
prior written consent. 
For the avoidance of doubt, transfers which are the result of employee turnover 
or reassignment are allowed, provided that such transfers do not occur more 
than frequently than annually. 
8. Limitation of Remedy and Liability. During the Warranty Period, in the event 
of any breach of the warranty outlined in Section 5b above, Licensor's ( and 
its suppliers), entire liability and your exclusive remedy will be, at 
Licensor's option, to either, repair or replace the defective Software.
NEITHER LICENSOR NOR ITS LICENSOR, IF ANY, SHALL BE LIABLE FOR INDIRECT, 
SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR FOR DAMAGE TO SYSTEMS OR 
DATA, EVEN IF LICENSOR HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. 
LICENSOR'S LIABILITY FOR DAMAGES HEREUNDER SHALL IN NO EVENT EXCEED THE AMOUNT 
OF LICENSE FEES THAT YOU HAVE PAID.
For Users within Europe, the Middle East or Africa, No person who is not a 
party to this Agreement shall be entitled to enforce any terms of the same 
under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999. 
LICENSOR DOES NOT LIMIT OR EXCLUDE ITS LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY 
CAUSED BY ITS NEGLIGENCE.
9. Maintenance Services. If ordered by you and upon payment of the applicable 
fee, you are entitled to receive technical support services, including 
corrections, fixes and enhancements to the Software as such are made generally 
available (the "maintenance services") from Licensor in accordance with 
Licensor's then-current maintenance terms for the applicable maintenance level 
purchased by you.
Maintenance services will not include any releases of the Software which 
Licensor determines to be a separate product or for which Licensor charges its 
customers extra or separately.
10. Upgrades. If the Software is an upgrade or update to a previous version of 
the Software, You must possess a valid license to such previous version in 
order to use such upgrade or update. After You install such update or upgrade, 
You may continue to use any such previous version in (and the upgrade or 
update) accordance with its end-user license agreement only if, (a) the 
previous versions or copies thereof are not transferred to another party or 
machine unless all copies of the update or upgrade are also transferred to such 
party or machine and (b) You acknowledge that any obligation Licensor may have 
to support the previous version(s) may be ended upon the availability of the 
upgrade or update. Upgrades and updates may be licensed to you by Licensor with 
additional or different terms.
11. Unauthorized Use and Validation of Use. 
IN ORDER TO PROTECT THE SOFTWARE FROM UNAUTHORIZED USE AND IN ORDER TO CONFIRM 
YOUR COMPLIANCE WITH THE LICENSE GRANTS AND RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN THIS 
AGREEMENT, THE SOFTWARE CONTAINS A VALIDATION PROCEDURE WHICH MAY TRANSMIT YOUR 
IP ADDRESS AND/OR APPLICABLE LICENSE KEY RELATING TO THE SOFTWARE TO LICENSOR. 
IF THE SOFTWARE DETECTS ANY VIOLATION OF THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT, YOU MAY 
BE CONTACTED BY LICENSOR REGARDING YOUR USE OF THE SOFTWARE AND/OR YOU MAY BE 
UNABLE TO USE THE SOFTWARE AND/OR CREATE UNRESTRICTED INSTALLER PRODUCTS UNTIL 
THE PROBLEM IS CORRECTED. IF YOU ARE UNABLE TO USE THE SOFTWARE AND/OR CREATE 
UNRESTRICTED INSTALLER PRODUCTS, YOU SHOULD IMMEDIATELY CONTACT LICENSOR.
12. Reports. Within thirty (30) days following Licensor's written request, and 
no more frequently than twice in any twelve (12) month period, you shall 
provide Licensor with a written statement certifying that you are not using 
copies of the Software in violation of this Agreement.
13. Verification/Audits. On Licensor's reasonable request, You will furnish 
Licensor with a signed statement confirming whether the Software is being used 
by You in accordance with this Agreement. Further during the term of this 
Agreement and for one (1) year thereafter, Licensor may, upon five (5) business 
days advance written notice to You, audit You for the purpose of verifying Your 
compliance with this Agreement. You understand and agree that the audit may 
take place in person or Licensor may use technological means to perform such 
audit. You agree to provide Licensor will all reasonable assistance required 
hereunder. 
14. Usage Data. You understand that Licensor may utilize technology which 
gathers information about Your computer system, however, such data is used 
solely for the purpose of understanding machine types and other system-oriented 
information and does not contain any personally identifiable information of 
You. 
15. Dual-Media Software. You may receive the Software in more than one medium 
(electronic and on a CD, for example). Receipt of the Software in more than a 
single manner (electronic or on a CD, for example) does not expand the license 
rights granted to you hereunder. Your use of the Software is limited to the 
number of licenses that you have acquired overall, regardless of number or type 
of media on which it has been provided.
16. U.S. Government Restricted Rights. The Software and Documentation are 
provided as "Commercial Computer Software" or "restricted computer software". 
Use, duplication, or disclosure by the U.S. Government or a U.S. Government 
subcontractor is subject to the restrictions set forth in 48.C.F.R. Section 
12.212 or 48 C.F.R 227.2702, as applicable or successor provisions. The 
manufacturer is Flexera Software, Inc., 1000 East Woodfield Road, Suite 400, 
Schaumburg, IL 60173 USA.
17. U. S. Export Restrictions. You will fully comply with all relevant export 
laws and regulations, including but not limited to the U.S. Export 
Administration Regulations and Executive Orders ("Export Controls"). You 
warrant that you are not a person, company or destination restricted or 
prohibited by Export Controls ("Restricted Person"). You will not, directly or 
indirectly, export, re-export, divert, or transfer the Software, any portion 
thereof or any materials, items or technology relating to Licensor's business 
or related technical data or any direct product thereof to any Restricted 
Person.
18. Termination. Your license may be terminated by Licensor if (a) you fail to 
make payment and/or (b) you fail to comply with the terms of this Agreement 
within ten (10) days after receipt of written notice of such failure. In the 
event of termination, you must cease using the Software, destroy all copies of 
the Software (including copies in storage media) and certify such destruction 
to Licensor. This requirement applies to all copies in any form, partial or 
complete. Upon the effective date of any termination, you relinquish all rights 
granted under this Agreement.
19. Relationship of Parties. You and Licensor are independent parties. Nothing 
in this Agreement shall be construed as making you an employee, agent or legal 
representative of Licensor.
20. No Third-Party Beneficiaries. There are no third-party beneficiaries of 
this Agreement.
21. Controlling Law. For users in Japan, this Agreement will be governed by the 
laws of Japan; for users in Europe, Middle East, or Africa, this Agreement will 
be governed by the laws of England and Wales and you submit to the jurisdiction 
of the courts of England and Wales; for users outside the countries listed 
above, this Agreement will be governed by the laws of California, USA, 
excluding conflicts of law. This Agreement is not subject to the United Nations 
Convention on Contracts for the Sale of Goods.
22. Company Name. Licensor may include your company name in a list of Licensor 
customers.
23. Payment Terms/Shipments. For users in Japan, all fees are in non-refundable 
Japanese Yen. For users in Europe, Middle East or Africa, all fees are in the 
currency outlined in the quote/invoice and are non-refundable. For users in any 
region not outlined, all fees are in non-refundable US Dollars. Fees are due 
within 30-days of the date of the invoice. 
If you have ordered Maintenance services you may renew the applicable services 
for the Software for the next annual period for the amount specified on the 
original invoice for the Software. All shipments of any media will be FOB 
Origin.
24. Taxes. All fees do not include taxes. If Licensor is required to pay any 
sales, use, GST, VAT, or other taxes in connection with your order, other than 
taxes based on Licensor's income, such taxes will be billed to and paid by you. 
You will make all payments of fees to Licensor free and clear of, and without 
reduction for, any withholding taxes; any such taxes imposed on payments of 
fees to Licensor will be your sole responsibility and consequently the amount 
of such fees will be increased such that the net fee received by Licensor will 
be the same as if such withholding taxes were not imposed, and you will provide 
Licensor with official receipts issued by the appropriate taxing authority, or 
such other evidence as the Licensor may reasonably request, to establish that 
such taxes have been paid.
25. Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the complete and entire 
understanding and agreement of all terms, conditions and representations 
between you and Licensor with respect to the Software and may be modified only 
in writing by both parties. No term or condition contained in your purchase 
order will apply unless expressly accepted by Licensor in writing. Failure to 
prosecute a party's rights will not constitute a waiver of any other breach.
If any provision of this Agreement is found to be invalid, it will be enforced 
to the extent permissible and the remainder of this Agreement will remain in 
full effect. 
This Agreement has been written in the English language and you waive any 
rights you may have under the law of your country or province to have this 
Agreement written in any other language.
 


NOTICE FROM PROGRESS SOFTWARE CORPORATION: Additional notices may be included 
in the release notes or other documentation that accompanies updates received 
in connection with support of the Product. 

Revised 10/10/2012

